log.md, before:

# 100 Days Of Code - Log

### Day 1: January 3, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Dug back into my personal "please hire me!" portfolio page after more than a month away from that work

**Thoughts:** Terribly ill with norovirus but started #100DOC anyway! Feel both horribly queasy and totally badass.

**Link to work:** {Portfolio Site} https://belligerent-crowd.gomix.me/

### Day 2: January 4, 2017

**Today's Progress**:  Portfolio site CSS/HTML & media queries for responsiveness

**Thoughts**:  Still sick/woozy but managed another hour. Slow but steady wins the race


### Day 3: January 5, 2017

**Today's Progress**: More media queries, both small and widescreen

**Thoughts**  still queasy, and two barfing kids home from school, but I DID MY HOUR OF CODE!!

### Day 4: 1/6/17

**Today's Progress**: Made my media queries more responsive - changed all the screen widths to 'em' units after a conversation with my FEWD teacher, Tom Kraak.

**Thoughts**: Anything worth doing is worth doing right -- or going back to do over. I appreciate learning from someone who believes in the discipline of pure code.

###DAy 5: 1/7/17:

**Today's Progress**: Playing with best presentation of the projects I'll be linking to through this portfolio site. HTML/CSS

**THoughts**: At MAGFest today, getting my freak on, and feeling very righteous to be doing my hour of code even when surrounded by such nerdvana...

###Day 6: 1/8/17

**Today's PRogress:**: sidestep into fixing up one of my earlier sites to make it worth of inclusion in the supaFINE portfolo HTML/CSS

**Thoughts** so much great work being done and on display at MAGFest indy game developer room, very inspiring to my own coding

##Day 7: 1/9/17

**Today's Progress:**: Markup on secondary portfolio pages

##Day8 1/10/17

**Today's Progress:**: worked on coding at my kids' robotics club meet. Portfolio site looking very good

##Day9 1/12/2017

**TOday's Progress:** : Day 9 DId my hour (and more) while my kid was sitting his entrance exam for CS magnet high school program. Go Jack!

##DAY 10 1/13/2017

**Today's PRogress:** wasted a great deal of time trying to position a logo on top of a background image in such a way that it looks good on all platforms. Great in Chrome, totally breaks in Safari, wtf???

##Day 11 1/14/2017

**TOday's PRogress:** still struggling with CSS positioning. Don't tell me it's all relative!  also: why must my fondness for fixed navs throw off any other ability to ever use CSS positioning?  really learning the difference between positioning and layout (flexbox does layout, not positioning)

##Day12 1/15/2017

**Today's Progress**: Spent today's coding time basically undoing all the HTML/CSS I did yesterday, dang it. Just one of those days...This AFTER i gave up and just did the logo/background overlay in photoshop the way i probably should have in the first palce. Two days wasted letting the perfect be the enemy of the good.

##Day13 1/16/2017

**Today's Progress**: Lucky Day 13 living up to its reputation - very frustrating day with flexbox, which i previously *thought* i understood!

##Day 14 1/17/17

**Todays progress:** that thing where you work all day on broken flexbox CSS then hours later find the dropped </div> in your markup...

##Day 15 1/18/17

**Today's Progress:**
one of those sweet days when it all goes right. Major progress. Portfolio site just about done. Feel the power of coding every day!

##Day 16 1/19/17

**Today's progress:**
Day 16 - finishing touches are so much fun! Finishing up my porftolio site and looking for the next challenge...

##Day17 1/20/2017

**TOday's progress**: took a break from HTML/CSS to do some JS coding. learning the ins and outs of array.prototype.sort() with compareFunction -- an IFFE passed in as an argument that allows sorting of arrays in different ways

**Link to the work**: https://github.com/mgienow/Codewars-exercises/blob/master/sum_Of_Two_Lowest_Positive_Integers.js

ALSO: FINALLY GOT LEGIT WITH GIT!!!!!

## Day18 1/21/2017

**TOday's progress**: Despite protest marching in Baltimore today, managed late evening coding. So that was progress even if my actual coding work was kinda not. Maybe the late hour explains why I mis-remembered how the slice() method works -- it removes an element from an array, yes, but returns that element in a new array.  I was looking for it to return the original array minus the target element. And oh the broken-ness....

## Day 19 1/22/2017

**Today's progress**: Put up my portfolio site for comments from the Baltim0re Free Code Camp community. Still things I need to do to it! Also joined Charm City JS today.  Spent 4 hours coding JS.

##Day 20 1/23/2017

**Today's progress**: making sure my portfolio site is responsive on mobile sizes in landscape.  arrrggghhh ihpone 4s!!

##Day21 1/24/2017

**Today's progress** more fine-tuning so that my site looks great on every apple device known to womankind.  forgot to push this to git yesterday tho i did manage to tweet and support some fellow #100daysofcode folks

##Day22 1/25/2017

**Today's progress** worked on Arctangent site to get it looking sharp for people to click through to from my portfolio.  moved everything to gomix for hosting.


## Day 23 1/26/2017

**Today's progress** spent some time on JS today, learning array method reduce(function(a,b) {a+b}); plus organizing my various web app projects to be consistent between two computers, two platforms, and GH.

##Day 24 1/27/2017

**Today's progress** Subtle but satisfying fine-tuning of the Arctangent gems page.  Looks great now!  My CSS is really on point. Today, anyway!

**link to work:** https://mire-organization.gomix.me/

##Day 25 1/28/2017

**Today's progress** worked on final section of arctangent site,t he contact page. contact forms are just boxes within boxes, they ought to be easy, right?  Well. That remains to be seen.

ALSO:  Day 25 = one quarter of the way to the goal of 100 days. 100 Days of Code has been a true motivator and I am making progress on projects that have been stalled for months. Honestly, making more progress on concrete output that I can show potential employers than since I finished FEWD course 6 months ago -- it was 6 months ago today, come to think of it. In the interim I haven't been lazy, I've just been focused on learning JS, and learning is great but i don't exactly have a portfolio of JS work I can point to.  Probably time to get back to FCC and see what those algorithms are all about.

##Day 26 1/30/2017

**Today's progress** Worked on CLI rooting out malware in hidden directories, and then FCC javascript. Short work day.

## Day 27 1/31/2017

**Today's progress** Worked through FCC basic JS track. Good review, trying to get to the exercises they call algorithms that I hear are excellent coding practice

## Day 28 2/1/2017

**TOday's progress** More FCC, plus going back to refactor a codewars kata (Vasya Clerk challenge) that I had partially solved, but not for all test cases. Dusts hands.

## Day 29 2/2/2017

**Today's progress:** Trying to get all my projects organized so that they're consistent between laptop and desktop, plus various IDEs and hosting platforms I've been using. Being disorganized has cost me too much time and confusion when I just want to be coding!

## Day 30 2/3/2017

**Today's progress:** Worked through more of FCC's Basic JS section. Spent most of the time on the Profile Lookup exercise, which was quite challenging. It clarified that I had not adequately internalized how to access arrays nested within objects -- i.e., the syntax thereof.

## Day 31 2/4/2017

**Today's progress:** Very productive day! Finished FCC basic javascript course and moved into Object Oriented Programming section. Played around with a codewars kata (Title Case) but not able to solve it all the way.

## Day 32 2/5/2017

**Today's progress:** Still hacking away at the Title Case kata -- much closer to a working solution. Today's Free Code Camp studying -- object oriented programming and the .map() method for arrays -- came at a fortuitous time for this challenge!

link to the work: https://www.codewars.com/kata/title-case/train/javascript

And also trying to replicate a git commit snafu so i can solve it. But of course I can't because the car never makes the bad sounding noise when the mechanic is looking at it.

##Day 33 2/6/2017
**Today's progress:** figuring out how to deploy web apps from github onto netlify.  pretty cool stuff!

link to the work: http://quality-controller-lizard-28567.netlify.com/index.html

##Day 34 2/7/2017
**Today's progress:** Earlier: worked on FCC object oriented programming module. Later: at Betamore Academy for github smackdown, i mean, learning to finally branch clone and merge like a champ.

link to the work: https://github.com/mgienow/

##Day 35 2/8/2017
**Today's progress:** Finished FCC OOP section and finally on to Basic JavaScript Alogrithm challenges!  W00t!  Set up a github repo to host my solutions and track my progress!

link to the work: https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting

##Day 36 2/9/2017
**Today's progress:** Solved Palindrome algo challenge, worked on learning proper pull request workflow on GitHub. Still struggling with GH -- just not intuitive for me, but it is getting better with repetition and exposure. Muscle memory!

link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/fewd-pull-request-exercise/tree/addMyName

##Day 37 2/10/2017
**Today's progress:** Solved an FCC challenge I'd been stuck on since yesterday, and then another one right after in record time. Felt very good!  Also: got a compliment on how well I comment my code.

link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/commit/2902992a3484190f337ad67b76e769658fd82490

##Day 38 2/11/2017
**Today's progress:** Another day, another FCC basic JS algorithm solved. Also: went to node school meet up and learned me some node!

link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/blob/master/return_largest_number_in_arrays.js

##Day 39 2/12/2017##
**Today's progress:** super tired and tempted to take a coding Sabbath, but pushed through an FCC algorithm challenge. Wrote some ugly but functional JavaScript that passed the test conditions woo hoo!  This was definitiely a day I would not have managed time to code, if I hadn't committed to the 100DOC.

link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/blob/master/confirm_the_ending.js

## Day 40 2/13/2017##
**Today's progress:** Finally started back on watchandcode, reviewing from beginning, while also doing at least one FCC basic JS algorithm challenge each day.

Link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/blob/master/repeat_a_string.js


##Day 41 2/14/2017##
**TOday's progress** inching along on watchandcode review and another FCC algorithm challenge that went down reasonably easily considering it's late and i'm tired from a long day!

link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/blob/master/truncate_a_string.js

##Day 42## 2/15/2017
**Today's progress:** still inching along on watchandcode practical javascript.

##Day 43 2/16/2017##
**Today's progress:** yet again, still inching along in watch and code, still reviewing previous progress.  and doing an FCC algorithm challenge each day.

##Day 44 2/17/2017##
**Today's progress:** Miraculously achieve success on first try of a Free Code Camp JS algo challenge! Also downloaded/installed Ruby to prep for a Rails workshop tomorrow.

link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/commit/d14e1a63325635a0c2f54f462710d98f9fe6cd56

##Day 45 2/18/2017##
**Today's progress:** Ten hour code-a-thon at Bmore On Rails!  I learned the basics of Ruby and then got started building an app using the Rails framework.  This was also the day my laptop's motherboard died, so I did all this on an eentsy loaner mac air using an unfamiliar dev platform!

link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Ruby-Bookstore

##Day 46 2/19/2017##
**Today's progress:** More progress on the Ruby bookstore app. Today I built out the browser interface for adding new books.

##Day 47## 2/20/2017
**TOday's progress:** Much time spent tracking down parts so my brother can repair my laptop. (Thanks, Kev!). But also bashed my way thru anpother FCC algorithm, "Mutations". I had it right fairly quickly but spent maybe an extr 45 min trying to figure out why it wasn't working -- it was because i was testing it wrong!  passing in mutations("hello", "hey") instead of mutations(["hello", "hey"]) -- those array brackets make a BIG difference, lol

link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/commit/aa56a8df47b232a3abd09bb05d2cd73796784bc9
## Day 47 extra credit##
Finished the next section in the Rails tutorial -- adding an edit in the browser feature to the bookstore app -- and then solved my first Ruby kata on codewars.  
https://github.com/mgienow/My-Codewars-Kata-Solutions-RUBY

##Day 48## 2/21/17
**Today's progress** Yet more Rails app progress, styling the app and linking pages to one another, and another FCC algo challenge.
##Day 49 ## 2/22/17
**Today's progress** Learned about the power of the argument object in JS, pretty cool!  Bascially, you can take arguments passed into a function and treat them sort of like an array: the arguments take the length property, and can be converted to an array if you need to access or manipulate them.

link to the work: https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/commit/b55092a3983b7cb7c9af6819fa15c71ae94fd9b6

###DAY 50  HALFWAY THERE!!!!! ###
**Today's Progress:** feeling enormously proud of myself for achieving the halfway point of 100 Days of Code challenge -- and grateful that I undertook this commitment.  It has been so valuable. Not only am I making progress toward my goals, it has helped me truly begin to believe in myself as a coder.

So far today, I have done an FCC challenge and learned, again, about the Array.prototype.sort() method.  How best approach, if you want an ascending array of integers, is to use a callback: arr.sort(function(a,b) { return a-b;});

link to that work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/blob/master/where_do_i_belong.js

##Day 51 2/24/2017 ##
**Today's progress** Just chapters 4 and most of 5 in watch and code. sigh.  

##Day 52 2/25/2017##
**Today's progress** is kind of that I sat down to do any coding whatsoever. A busy Saturday with friends staying over, other friends coming for dinner later, and going to buy baby chicks and set up their accomodations in between.  Laid out workflow for Final FCC JS algo challenge, and played around with .charCodeAt() and String.fromCharCode().


##Lacuna: 2/26/2017##
I ended up taking a much needed Sabbath from coding (as well as computers) today. I did sit down first thing in the morning to try to work on the final FCC challenge and my brain just would not engage. I was nearly in tears, feeling pretty tired and burned out in general and decided that rather than fight through it, what I needed more was a day of rest and focusing on being with my family. I believe in this challenge and I don't skip days unless there is a truly compelling reason. However, discretion is the better part of valor.  


##Day 53 2/27/2017 ##
**Today's progress** Came back this morning refreshed and re-energized, and solved what yesterday had felt like an impossible challenge in less than an hour -- including pushing a well-commented solution to github!  I am very excited to be finished this 50 hour section of the FCC curriculum; I solved the 17 challenges in 19 days, mainly doing one a day. Some took two days, a few I managed to do two in one day. BUT I DID IT!!!!!  In large part thanks to the 100 DOC commitment.

link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/commit/9069124b7a32d4e542e78612b5fea040b2cd38be

#Day 54 2/28/2017 ##
**Today's progress** Reviewed FCC jQuery section and started JSON APIs. Exciting stuff!  Also wrote a piece about open source tax modeling for TNS. Less exciting stuff. But paying the bills is exciting, so.  
<<<<<<< HEAD

## Day 55 3/1/2017 ##
**Today's progress** A very long travel day with no computer time, got to hotel and took a shot at a codewars kata just to have some javascript time. i'm so tired that i'm cross-eyed and don't expect any new FCC or watch and code material would stick in my brain.  Today's main coding achievement is that I made time to do it at all.
## Day 56 3/2/2017 ##
**Today's progress:** Traveling, so still not much coding time. Figured out the codewars kata I struggled with yesterday and read an interesting piece about not using conditionals in JS -- for long chains of switch or if/else statements - when you can use a dispatch table, which is basically an object format for decision making scenarios.

link to the work: https://github.com/mgienow/Codewars-exercises/blob/master/museum_of_dull_things.js


=======
>>>>>>> c91d31247e1d332437fbe3b37e7ba7c70ef14948

Commit message:

Day 57, playing with Ruby again

log.md, after:

# 100 Days Of Code - Log

### Day 1: January 3, 2017

**Today's Progress**: Dug back into my personal "please hire me!" portfolio page after more than a month away from that work

**Thoughts:** Terribly ill with norovirus but started #100DOC anyway! Feel both horribly queasy and totally badass.

**Link to work:** {Portfolio Site} https://belligerent-crowd.gomix.me/

### Day 2: January 4, 2017

**Today's Progress**:  Portfolio site CSS/HTML & media queries for responsiveness

**Thoughts**:  Still sick/woozy but managed another hour. Slow but steady wins the race


### Day 3: January 5, 2017

**Today's Progress**: More media queries, both small and widescreen

**Thoughts**  still queasy, and two barfing kids home from school, but I DID MY HOUR OF CODE!!

### Day 4: 1/6/17

**Today's Progress**: Made my media queries more responsive - changed all the screen widths to 'em' units after a conversation with my FEWD teacher, Tom Kraak.

**Thoughts**: Anything worth doing is worth doing right -- or going back to do over. I appreciate learning from someone who believes in the discipline of pure code.

###DAy 5: 1/7/17:

**Today's Progress**: Playing with best presentation of the projects I'll be linking to through this portfolio site. HTML/CSS

**THoughts**: At MAGFest today, getting my freak on, and feeling very righteous to be doing my hour of code even when surrounded by such nerdvana...

###Day 6: 1/8/17

**Today's PRogress:**: sidestep into fixing up one of my earlier sites to make it worth of inclusion in the supaFINE portfolo HTML/CSS

**Thoughts** so much great work being done and on display at MAGFest indy game developer room, very inspiring to my own coding

##Day 7: 1/9/17

**Today's Progress:**: Markup on secondary portfolio pages

##Day8 1/10/17

**Today's Progress:**: worked on coding at my kids' robotics club meet. Portfolio site looking very good

##Day9 1/12/2017

**TOday's Progress:** : Day 9 DId my hour (and more) while my kid was sitting his entrance exam for CS magnet high school program. Go Jack!

##DAY 10 1/13/2017

**Today's PRogress:** wasted a great deal of time trying to position a logo on top of a background image in such a way that it looks good on all platforms. Great in Chrome, totally breaks in Safari, wtf???

##Day 11 1/14/2017

**TOday's PRogress:** still struggling with CSS positioning. Don't tell me it's all relative!  also: why must my fondness for fixed navs throw off any other ability to ever use CSS positioning?  really learning the difference between positioning and layout (flexbox does layout, not positioning)

##Day12 1/15/2017

**Today's Progress**: Spent today's coding time basically undoing all the HTML/CSS I did yesterday, dang it. Just one of those days...This AFTER i gave up and just did the logo/background overlay in photoshop the way i probably should have in the first palce. Two days wasted letting the perfect be the enemy of the good.

##Day13 1/16/2017

**Today's Progress**: Lucky Day 13 living up to its reputation - very frustrating day with flexbox, which i previously *thought* i understood!

##Day 14 1/17/17

**Todays progress:** that thing where you work all day on broken flexbox CSS then hours later find the dropped </div> in your markup...

##Day 15 1/18/17

**Today's Progress:**
one of those sweet days when it all goes right. Major progress. Portfolio site just about done. Feel the power of coding every day!

##Day 16 1/19/17

**Today's progress:**
Day 16 - finishing touches are so much fun! Finishing up my porftolio site and looking for the next challenge...

##Day17 1/20/2017

**TOday's progress**: took a break from HTML/CSS to do some JS coding. learning the ins and outs of array.prototype.sort() with compareFunction -- an IFFE passed in as an argument that allows sorting of arrays in different ways

**Link to the work**: https://github.com/mgienow/Codewars-exercises/blob/master/sum_Of_Two_Lowest_Positive_Integers.js

ALSO: FINALLY GOT LEGIT WITH GIT!!!!!

## Day18 1/21/2017

**TOday's progress**: Despite protest marching in Baltimore today, managed late evening coding. So that was progress even if my actual coding work was kinda not. Maybe the late hour explains why I mis-remembered how the slice() method works -- it removes an element from an array, yes, but returns that element in a new array.  I was looking for it to return the original array minus the target element. And oh the broken-ness....

## Day 19 1/22/2017

**Today's progress**: Put up my portfolio site for comments from the Baltim0re Free Code Camp community. Still things I need to do to it! Also joined Charm City JS today.  Spent 4 hours coding JS.

##Day 20 1/23/2017

**Today's progress**: making sure my portfolio site is responsive on mobile sizes in landscape.  arrrggghhh ihpone 4s!!

##Day21 1/24/2017

**Today's progress** more fine-tuning so that my site looks great on every apple device known to womankind.  forgot to push this to git yesterday tho i did manage to tweet and support some fellow #100daysofcode folks

##Day22 1/25/2017

**Today's progress** worked on Arctangent site to get it looking sharp for people to click through to from my portfolio.  moved everything to gomix for hosting.


## Day 23 1/26/2017

**Today's progress** spent some time on JS today, learning array method reduce(function(a,b) {a+b}); plus organizing my various web app projects to be consistent between two computers, two platforms, and GH.

##Day 24 1/27/2017

**Today's progress** Subtle but satisfying fine-tuning of the Arctangent gems page.  Looks great now!  My CSS is really on point. Today, anyway!

**link to work:** https://mire-organization.gomix.me/

##Day 25 1/28/2017

**Today's progress** worked on final section of arctangent site,t he contact page. contact forms are just boxes within boxes, they ought to be easy, right?  Well. That remains to be seen.

ALSO:  Day 25 = one quarter of the way to the goal of 100 days. 100 Days of Code has been a true motivator and I am making progress on projects that have been stalled for months. Honestly, making more progress on concrete output that I can show potential employers than since I finished FEWD course 6 months ago -- it was 6 months ago today, come to think of it. In the interim I haven't been lazy, I've just been focused on learning JS, and learning is great but i don't exactly have a portfolio of JS work I can point to.  Probably time to get back to FCC and see what those algorithms are all about.

##Day 26 1/30/2017

**Today's progress** Worked on CLI rooting out malware in hidden directories, and then FCC javascript. Short work day.

## Day 27 1/31/2017

**Today's progress** Worked through FCC basic JS track. Good review, trying to get to the exercises they call algorithms that I hear are excellent coding practice

## Day 28 2/1/2017

**TOday's progress** More FCC, plus going back to refactor a codewars kata (Vasya Clerk challenge) that I had partially solved, but not for all test cases. Dusts hands.

## Day 29 2/2/2017

**Today's progress:** Trying to get all my projects organized so that they're consistent between laptop and desktop, plus various IDEs and hosting platforms I've been using. Being disorganized has cost me too much time and confusion when I just want to be coding!

## Day 30 2/3/2017

**Today's progress:** Worked through more of FCC's Basic JS section. Spent most of the time on the Profile Lookup exercise, which was quite challenging. It clarified that I had not adequately internalized how to access arrays nested within objects -- i.e., the syntax thereof.

## Day 31 2/4/2017

**Today's progress:** Very productive day! Finished FCC basic javascript course and moved into Object Oriented Programming section. Played around with a codewars kata (Title Case) but not able to solve it all the way.

## Day 32 2/5/2017

**Today's progress:** Still hacking away at the Title Case kata -- much closer to a working solution. Today's Free Code Camp studying -- object oriented programming and the .map() method for arrays -- came at a fortuitous time for this challenge!

link to the work: https://www.codewars.com/kata/title-case/train/javascript

And also trying to replicate a git commit snafu so i can solve it. But of course I can't because the car never makes the bad sounding noise when the mechanic is looking at it.

##Day 33 2/6/2017
**Today's progress:** figuring out how to deploy web apps from github onto netlify.  pretty cool stuff!

link to the work: http://quality-controller-lizard-28567.netlify.com/index.html

##Day 34 2/7/2017
**Today's progress:** Earlier: worked on FCC object oriented programming module. Later: at Betamore Academy for github smackdown, i mean, learning to finally branch clone and merge like a champ.

link to the work: https://github.com/mgienow/

##Day 35 2/8/2017
**Today's progress:** Finished FCC OOP section and finally on to Basic JavaScript Alogrithm challenges!  W00t!  Set up a github repo to host my solutions and track my progress!

link to the work: https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting

##Day 36 2/9/2017
**Today's progress:** Solved Palindrome algo challenge, worked on learning proper pull request workflow on GitHub. Still struggling with GH -- just not intuitive for me, but it is getting better with repetition and exposure. Muscle memory!

link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/fewd-pull-request-exercise/tree/addMyName

##Day 37 2/10/2017
**Today's progress:** Solved an FCC challenge I'd been stuck on since yesterday, and then another one right after in record time. Felt very good!  Also: got a compliment on how well I comment my code.

link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/commit/2902992a3484190f337ad67b76e769658fd82490

##Day 38 2/11/2017
**Today's progress:** Another day, another FCC basic JS algorithm solved. Also: went to node school meet up and learned me some node!

link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/blob/master/return_largest_number_in_arrays.js

##Day 39 2/12/2017##
**Today's progress:** super tired and tempted to take a coding Sabbath, but pushed through an FCC algorithm challenge. Wrote some ugly but functional JavaScript that passed the test conditions woo hoo!  This was definitiely a day I would not have managed time to code, if I hadn't committed to the 100DOC.

link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/blob/master/confirm_the_ending.js

## Day 40 2/13/2017##
**Today's progress:** Finally started back on watchandcode, reviewing from beginning, while also doing at least one FCC basic JS algorithm challenge each day.

Link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/blob/master/repeat_a_string.js


##Day 41 2/14/2017##
**TOday's progress** inching along on watchandcode review and another FCC algorithm challenge that went down reasonably easily considering it's late and i'm tired from a long day!

link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/blob/master/truncate_a_string.js

##Day 42## 2/15/2017
**Today's progress:** still inching along on watchandcode practical javascript.

##Day 43 2/16/2017##
**Today's progress:** yet again, still inching along in watch and code, still reviewing previous progress.  and doing an FCC algorithm challenge each day.

##Day 44 2/17/2017##
**Today's progress:** Miraculously achieve success on first try of a Free Code Camp JS algo challenge! Also downloaded/installed Ruby to prep for a Rails workshop tomorrow.

link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/commit/d14e1a63325635a0c2f54f462710d98f9fe6cd56

##Day 45 2/18/2017##
**Today's progress:** Ten hour code-a-thon at Bmore On Rails!  I learned the basics of Ruby and then got started building an app using the Rails framework.  This was also the day my laptop's motherboard died, so I did all this on an eentsy loaner mac air using an unfamiliar dev platform!

link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Ruby-Bookstore

##Day 46 2/19/2017##
**Today's progress:** More progress on the Ruby bookstore app. Today I built out the browser interface for adding new books.

##Day 47## 2/20/2017
**TOday's progress:** Much time spent tracking down parts so my brother can repair my laptop. (Thanks, Kev!). But also bashed my way thru anpother FCC algorithm, "Mutations". I had it right fairly quickly but spent maybe an extr 45 min trying to figure out why it wasn't working -- it was because i was testing it wrong!  passing in mutations("hello", "hey") instead of mutations(["hello", "hey"]) -- those array brackets make a BIG difference, lol

link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/commit/aa56a8df47b232a3abd09bb05d2cd73796784bc9
## Day 47 extra credit##
Finished the next section in the Rails tutorial -- adding an edit in the browser feature to the bookstore app -- and then solved my first Ruby kata on codewars.  
https://github.com/mgienow/My-Codewars-Kata-Solutions-RUBY

##Day 48## 2/21/17
**Today's progress** Yet more Rails app progress, styling the app and linking pages to one another, and another FCC algo challenge.
##Day 49 ## 2/22/17
**Today's progress** Learned about the power of the argument object in JS, pretty cool!  Bascially, you can take arguments passed into a function and treat them sort of like an array: the arguments take the length property, and can be converted to an array if you need to access or manipulate them.

link to the work: https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/commit/b55092a3983b7cb7c9af6819fa15c71ae94fd9b6

###DAY 50  HALFWAY THERE!!!!! ###
**Today's Progress:** feeling enormously proud of myself for achieving the halfway point of 100 Days of Code challenge -- and grateful that I undertook this commitment.  It has been so valuable. Not only am I making progress toward my goals, it has helped me truly begin to believe in myself as a coder.

So far today, I have done an FCC challenge and learned, again, about the Array.prototype.sort() method.  How best approach, if you want an ascending array of integers, is to use a callback: arr.sort(function(a,b) { return a-b;});

link to that work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/blob/master/where_do_i_belong.js

##Day 51 2/24/2017 ##
**Today's progress** Just chapters 4 and most of 5 in watch and code. sigh.  

##Day 52 2/25/2017##
**Today's progress** is kind of that I sat down to do any coding whatsoever. A busy Saturday with friends staying over, other friends coming for dinner later, and going to buy baby chicks and set up their accomodations in between.  Laid out workflow for Final FCC JS algo challenge, and played around with .charCodeAt() and String.fromCharCode().


##Lacuna: 2/26/2017##
I ended up taking a much needed Sabbath from coding (as well as computers) today. I did sit down first thing in the morning to try to work on the final FCC challenge and my brain just would not engage. I was nearly in tears, feeling pretty tired and burned out in general and decided that rather than fight through it, what I needed more was a day of rest and focusing on being with my family. I believe in this challenge and I don't skip days unless there is a truly compelling reason. However, discretion is the better part of valor.  


##Day 53 2/27/2017 ##
**Today's progress** Came back this morning refreshed and re-energized, and solved what yesterday had felt like an impossible challenge in less than an hour -- including pushing a well-commented solution to github!  I am very excited to be finished this 50 hour section of the FCC curriculum; I solved the 17 challenges in 19 days, mainly doing one a day. Some took two days, a few I managed to do two in one day. BUT I DID IT!!!!!  In large part thanks to the 100 DOC commitment.

link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/Free-Code-Camp-Basic-Algorithm-Scripting/commit/9069124b7a32d4e542e78612b5fea040b2cd38be

#Day 54 2/28/2017 ##
**Today's progress** Reviewed FCC jQuery section and started JSON APIs. Exciting stuff!  Also wrote a piece about open source tax modeling for TNS. Less exciting stuff. But paying the bills is exciting, so.  
<<<<<<< HEAD

## Day 55 3/1/2017 ##
**Today's progress** A very long travel day with no computer time, got to hotel and took a shot at a codewars kata just to have some javascript time. i'm so tired that i'm cross-eyed and don't expect any new FCC or watch and code material would stick in my brain.  Today's main coding achievement is that I made time to do it at all.
## Day 56 3/2/2017 ##
**Today's progress:** Traveling, so still not much coding time. Figured out the codewars kata I struggled with yesterday and read an interesting piece about not using conditionals in JS -- for long chains of switch or if/else statements - when you can use a dispatch table, which is basically an object format for decision making scenarios.

link to the work: https://github.com/mgienow/Codewars-exercises/blob/master/museum_of_dull_things.js

##Day 57 3/3/2017##
**Today's progress:** Still on the road. Got back to hotel room at 8:30 and managed a very easy codewars Ruby challenge.  Made harder by the fact that this particular kata wanted you to write your own test cases, which I have no idea how to do in Ruby.  But I like Ruby and would like to tinker around with it even while concentrating mainly on JS.

link to the work:
https://github.com/mgienow/My-Codewars-Kata-Solutions-RUBY

=======
>>>>>>> c91d31247e1d332437fbe3b37e7ba7c70ef14948
